API_ROUTES_SUMMARY.md, before:

# API Routes Implementation Summary

## ✅ Created API Routes

### Authentication & User Management
1. **`/api/v1/auth/api-key`** ✅ CREATED
   - `GET` - List user's API keys with permissions check
   - `POST` - Create new API key with tier validation
   - `DELETE` - Delete API key

2. **`/api/v1/user/tokens`** ✅ CREATED
   - `GET` - Get user token balance, usage stats, and tier info
   - Handles daily token reset automatically

### Core API Endpoints (Already Existed)
3. **`/api/v1/developers`** ✅ EXISTS
   - `POST` - AI-powered developer search
   - Token cost: 500-2000 tokens

4. **`/api/v1/repositories`** ✅ EXISTS
   - `POST` - AI-powered repository search
   - Token cost: 200-600 tokens

### New Endpoints Created
5. **`/api/v1/profile/analyze`** ✅ CREATED
   - `POST` - GitHub profile analysis with AI insights
   - Token cost: 300-800 tokens
   - Analyzes user repos, languages, experience, collaboration

6. **`/api/v1/pricing`** ✅ CREATED
   - `GET` - Get pricing information, tiers, and token packages
   - No token cost (free endpoint)

### Billing & Purchasing (Already Existed)
7. **`/api/v1/billing/buy-tokens`** ✅ EXISTS
   - `POST` - Purchase token packages

### Other Existing Routes
8. **`/api/v1/users/tier`** ✅ EXISTS
9. **`/api/v1/users/api-key-permission`** ✅ EXISTS
10. **`/api/v1/auth/keys`** ✅ EXISTS

## 🔧 Supporting Libraries Created

### API Authentication
- **`lib/api-auth.ts`** ✅ CREATED
  - `validateApiKey()` - Validates API keys from headers
  - `requireApiKey()` - Middleware wrapper for protected routes

## 📋 API Route Features

### Authentication Methods
1. **Session-based** (for dashboard/web app)
   - Uses NextAuth.js sessions
   - Routes: `/auth/api-key`, `/user/tokens`, `/billing/*`

2. **API Key-based** (for external API calls)
   - Uses `x-api-key` header
   - Routes: `/developers`, `/repositories`, `/profile/analyze`
   - Validates against hashed keys in database

### Token Management
- **Automatic daily reset** of free tokens
- **Usage tracking** (tokens + requests)
- **Tier-based limits** enforcement
- **Token consumption** with database updates

### Error Handling
- **401** - Unauthorized (missing/invalid auth)
- **402** - Insufficient tokens
- **403** - Forbidden (tier limits)
- **404** - Resource not found
- **429** - Rate limiting (planned)
- **500** - Internal server error

## 🎯 Dashboard Integration

### API Dashboard (`/api-dashboard`)
- ✅ Connects to `/api/v1/auth/api-key` for key management
- ✅ Connects to `/api/v1/user/tokens` for balance/usage
- ✅ Real-time token balance updates
- ✅ API key creation with tier validation

### API Documentation (`/api-docs`)
- ✅ Interactive playground for all endpoints
- ✅ Live API testing with real responses
- ✅ Code examples in multiple languages
- ✅ Authentication documentation

### Token Store (`/upgrade`)
- ✅ Connects to `/api/v1/billing/buy-tokens`
- ✅ Currency selection (USD/INR)
- ✅ Token package purchasing

## 🚀 Ready for Testing

All API routes are now implemented and ready for testing:

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Test Endpoints:
1. **Dashboard**: `http://localhost:3000/api-dashboard`
2. **Documentation**: `http://localhost:3000/api-docs`
3. **Token Store**: `http://localhost:3000/upgrade`

### API Endpoints:
- `POST /api/v1/developers` - Developer search
- `POST /api/v1/repositories` - Repository search  
- `POST /api/v1/profile/analyze` - Profile analysis
- `GET /api/v1/pricing` - Pricing info

The 404 errors should now be resolved! 🎉

Commit message:

Refactor pricing and user tier management by centralizing definitions in consts/pricing.ts; update user-tiers.ts to utilize new constants and streamline token package handling; add comprehensive API details and pricing documentation; enhance issue tracking with detailed feature requests and performance improvements.

API_ROUTES_SUMMARY.md, after:

# API Routes Implementation Summary

## ✅ Created API Routes

### Authentication & User Management
1. **`/api/v1/auth/api-key`** ✅ CREATED
   - `GET` - List user's API keys with permissions check
   - `POST` - Create new API key with tier validation
   - `DELETE` - Delete API key

2. **`/api/v1/user/tokens`** ✅ CREATED
   - `GET` - Get user token balance, usage stats, and tier info
   - Handles daily token reset automatically

### Core API Endpoints (Already Existed)
3. **`/api/v1/developers`** ✅ EXISTS
   - `POST` - AI-powered developer search
   - Token cost: 200-800 tokens (from consts/pricing)

4. **`/api/v1/repositories`** ✅ EXISTS
   - `POST` - AI-powered repository search
   - Token cost: 150-1200 tokens (from consts/pricing)

### New Endpoints Created
5. **`/api/v1/profile/analyze`** ✅ CREATED
   - `POST` - GitHub profile analysis with AI insights
   - Token cost: 300-2000 tokens (from consts/pricing)
   - Analyzes user repos, languages, experience, collaboration

6. **`/api/v1/pricing`** ✅ CREATED
   - `GET` - Get pricing information, tiers, and token packages
   - No token cost (free endpoint)

### Billing & Purchasing (Already Existed)
7. **`/api/v1/billing/buy-tokens`** ✅ EXISTS
   - `POST` - Purchase token packages

### Other Existing Routes
8. **`/api/v1/users/tier`** ✅ EXISTS
9. **`/api/v1/users/api-key-permission`** ✅ EXISTS
10. **`/api/v1/auth/keys`** ✅ EXISTS

## 🔧 Supporting Libraries Created

### API Authentication
- **`lib/api-auth.ts`** ✅ CREATED
  - `validateApiKey()` - Validates API keys from headers
  - `requireApiKey()` - Middleware wrapper for protected routes

## 📋 API Route Features

### Authentication Methods
1. **Session-based** (for dashboard/web app)
   - Uses NextAuth.js sessions
   - Routes: `/auth/api-key`, `/user/tokens`, `/billing/*`

2. **API Key-based** (for external API calls)
   - Uses `x-api-key` header
   - Routes: `/developers`, `/repositories`, `/profile/analyze`
   - Validates against hashed keys in database

### Token Management
- **Automatic daily reset** of free tokens
- **Usage tracking** (tokens + requests)
- **Tier-based limits** enforcement
- **Token consumption** with database updates

### Error Handling
- **401** - Unauthorized (missing/invalid auth)
- **402** - Insufficient tokens
- **403** - Forbidden (tier limits)
- **404** - Resource not found
- **429** - Rate limiting (planned)
- **500** - Internal server error

## 🎯 Dashboard Integration

### API Dashboard (`/api-dashboard`)
- ✅ Connects to `/api/v1/auth/api-key` for key management
- ✅ Connects to `/api/v1/user/tokens` for balance/usage
- ✅ Real-time token balance updates
- ✅ API key creation with tier validation

### API Documentation (`/api-docs`)
- ✅ Interactive playground for all endpoints
- ✅ Live API testing with real responses
- ✅ Code examples in multiple languages
- ✅ Authentication documentation

### Token Store (`/upgrade`)
- ✅ Connects to `/api/v1/billing/buy-tokens`
- ✅ Currency selection (USD/INR)
- ✅ Token package purchasing

## 🚀 Ready for Testing

All API routes are now implemented and ready for testing:

```bash
npm run dev
```

### Test Endpoints:
1. **Dashboard**: `http://localhost:3000/api-dashboard`
2. **Documentation**: `http://localhost:3000/api-docs`
3. **Token Store**: `http://localhost:3000/upgrade`

### API Endpoints:
- `POST /api/v1/developers` - Developer search
- `POST /api/v1/repositories` - Repository search  
- `POST /api/v1/profile/analyze` - Profile analysis
- `GET /api/v1/pricing` - Pricing info

The 404 errors should now be resolved! 🎉
